The game is played using a standard 8x8 chess board using two sets of 16 identical pieces: one set white and one set black.
These pieces are arranged in the two rows closest to their respective players.

> VIP Piece: Each player rolls a d20. This decides which piece is their VIP (3 = bottom-left piece, 18 = top-right piece).
  Keep this piece a secret, as once it is defeated, the other player wins.
  - On a 19-20, the player decides on their VIP’s location.
  - On a 1-2, the opposing player decides on the VIP’s location.

> Turn Order: Each player draws a 5-card hand from a standard 52-card deck. Whoever has the best poker hand chooses who goes first.

> Moving: To move a piece, a player must first declare which piece they are moving. Once this decision is made, roll 1d6 to decide how the piece moves for this round.
  If the piece is unable to move, or the player does not like the roll, the player can reroll once or choose another piece to roll for.
  If this also fails, the player's turn is forfeit.
    1. Pawn
    2. Bishop
    3. Knight
    4. Rook
    5. Queen
    6. King (note: This piece does not have the properties of the VIP)

> Attacking: Whenever a player attempts to capture a piece, flip a coin.
  - On heads, the piece is captured and placed in the attacker's hand.
  - On tails, the piece is damaged. A damaged piece automatically fails the next coin flip.
  Either player can expend a piece in their hand to re-flip the coin. There is no limit to the amount of times this can occur in a round.
  
> Chance Time: If a VIP is damaged but not captured, both VIPs are revealed and the game enters *Chance Time*.
  Roll 1d20 to decide what random effect is applied to the board.
  
1. Sudden Death: All pieces are cleared off the board, except the VIPs.
2. Teleportation Accident: A player’s VIP randomly swaps places with another piece at the start of their turn.
    This is not limited to the current player’s pieces.
3. Conformity: The player whose VIP was damaged rolls a d6. This decides the behavior of all pieces for the remainder of the game.
4. Foreign Exchange: The VIPs immediately switch places.
5. Thorns II: Whenever a piece is attacked, the attacker is damaged.
6. Duel: Coin flips are now changed to games of Rock, Paper, Scissors between players.
7. Chesker Revolution: All pieces on the board are evenly-distributed between players and placed back on the board, starting from the back-left row.
    All pieces in players’ hands are evenly-distributed as well. If a piece cannot be evenly-distributed, it is destroyed.
8. Structural Failure: All damaged pieces (besides the VIP) are destroyed, and all undamaged pieces are considered damaged.
9. Necromancy: All pieces in the players’ hands are converted to their color and placed back on the board, starting from the back-left row.
10. Defectors: At the start of each turn, one of the player’s pieces randomly changes to the opposing player’s color (this cannot affect a VIP).
11. Spontaneous Combustion: At the start of each turn, the player must choose one of their pieces to take damage.
     The opposing player can expend a piece from their hand to make them choose a different piece (this can only happen once per turn).
12. Chess Rules!: Roll a d6 for each of your pieces. This decides their behavior for the remainder of the game.
13. Checkers Rules!: Flip a coin: heads = black, tails = white. Move each of your pieces to the nearest square of this color (player’s choice).
     All pieces act like ordinary checkers pieces for the remainder of the game.
14. Everything Rules!: Roll a d6 for each of your pieces. This decides their behavior for the remainder of the game.
     Flip a coin: heads = black, tails = white. If a piece is currently on a square of this color, you can instead move it like a checkers piece.
15. Pitfall: Some spaces are now pitfalls. Roll 1d4 and consult the table below to decide their arrangement (red = pitfall).
     Only a knight can cross a pitfall, and any pieces present on a pitfall when it appears is damaged and moved to the nearest available space (player’s choice).
     [Images to be added]
16. Supersize Me: The VIPs are enlarged to be 2x2 pieces, “pushing” any pieces in their space (player’s choice on which directions they expand).
     Each VIP has 4 health (or 2 if previously damaged), can attack up to 4 pieces in one move, and turn back to 1x1 pieces if they collide with the other VIP.
17. Completionist: All the opponent’s pieces must be eliminated to win. The VIP is no longer the target.
18. Gun?: The VIPs now wield guns, allowing them to attack any piece within line of sight (I.e. the first piece in each of the 4 cardinal directions).
     They do not travel to this piece.
19. Recursion: The game restarts, with the board reduced to 6x6 and the number of pieces to 12 each.
     If this occurs again, the board is reduced to 4x4 and the number of pieces to 8 each. If this occurs a third time, God is dead and Cheskers killed him.
20. Cataclysm: At the start of each round, a different Chance Time event is rolled. This is overridden (if possible) at the start of the next round.
